$District of Oak Bay 2021 Budget Questionnaire – Comments on Council Priorities Note: Typos and grammar as provided – staff have not edited Diverse Housing – Detailed Responses Package of Initiatives: Provide support to Capital Regional Hospital District re: Oak Bay Lodge redevelopment; Prepare a Housing Needs Report; Complete a Secondary Suite Study; Identify infill housing opportunities and specific housing needs for neighbourhoods; Prepare Village Area Plan(s) for the Oak Bay Village/Cadboro Bay Road corridor and for the Secondary Village areas; Develop a community amenity contribution policy; Undertake a process to amend the OCP for a new Heritage Conservation Area; Update Zoning Bylaw; Enhance enforcement of short-term rentals • No more study obfuscations on secondary suites, housing needs. Do not deny homeless seniors shelter at Oak Bay Lodge. • This is just a big dog and pony show and waste of money. Council need to incentivize infill, invite developers to put up 6 storeys along the corridor, and stop being scared of entitled old white people • Secondary suite • Don't need secondary suite • Secondary suites don't need more studying - they already exist. We need to legalize them immediately and encourage this gentle densification to allow younger families to live in Oak Bay. • Do not damage Oak Bay's single family neighbourhoods. • Really. Just pick two or three and get them completed without adding significantly to budget • Oak Bay also have elderly people and people who needs social assistance - we need to help out and not let Victoria do it all. Illegal secondary suites are plentiful - people should not have to live illegally. • The municipal act does not stipulate the municipality should spen tax payers money on housing needs. Infrastructure , yes, but housing is a provincial responsibility • As mentioned earlier in the survey, this is an example of items where needs assessment will be done and 3rd party consultants used and thousands of dollars will be spent and most will go nowhere and get shelved. Wasteful misuse of public hard earned funds. • No more studies on secondary suites. It is time to implement them and allow illegal suites to be made legal. The planning department should get more authority to approve DP’s without councils input. A COTW meeting should not allow public input. A Public Hearing is meant for that. Land use applications are talking too long to process and Oak Bay is not contributing its share in growth proportionate to the CRD. • Oak Bay says it wants diverse housing but does not allow it when it comes up. We need to provide more housing • There is a housing crisis, and Oak Bay is not doing it’s part to help. These items don’t appear to have a meaningful impact, as they seem to focus on making reports, rather than making policy change which impacts the community. Densification needs to happen, and quickly. • Some of these things have been "study" for far too long. • Secondary suite study is only a starting point. This is taking far too long. We should have already prepared a bylaw for public review by now with implementation in 2021 • Investigate the viability of sponsoring the development of another not-for-profit housing co- operative. Liaise with CHF BC to learn more about developing a small family-based and/or another 55+ co-op. • Approve and act, when this gets done my kids will be adults • Need to do more to address lack of housing in greater Victoria • needs to move faster for more density and affordability! secondary suites are needed now • Secondary Suite Study is paralysis by analysis; this issue has been reviewed and consulted on for over 10 years, and still nothing done. Another study is not what we need. We need a bylaw which permits secondary suites with few restrictions, except to protect health and safety of unit occupants. Also need resources devoted to comprehensive heritage conservation strategy, in addition to the work on the new HCA. Update zoning bylaw: again - insufficient resources attached to this work and far too long a delay in getting to it. • Focus on secondary suites Victoria can deal with the homeless issues they created Oak Bay Lodge development should be expedited - Lisa Helps cannot export the problems she and NDP created to another district - send back to provinces so all can have a hand in resolving - not just Victoria / BC • Too much surveys and study Get on with it • It is unclear to what end enforcement of short-term rentals ought to be enhanced, especially if it is based on unproven assertions that STR somehow remove full-time rental stock. In any case, if that's the concern, a bylaw could be enacted to prohibit use of a property full time as STR, but to permit it when the owner is not using the property. The current approach is a blunt hammer to what is probably a non-existent problem. • Why enforce short term rentals? Why not be humanitarians and help people survive and help others by providing short term accommodation. We have too many rules in this municipality that really don't serve a high purpose! • Do more to stem homes being torn down and monster homes being built. • Get moving on the secondary suite issue. We are light years behind other jurisdictions. • Insufficient and too slow. Housing options and affordability are being eroded rapidly by developer- driven initiatives and lack of Council policy to promote diverse and affordable options. • We need to actively face the problem of homlessness. We need to provide land for the construction of subsidized housing. • Who is pressing for infill, secondary suites?:??? I would like to know what the pressures are that are making these priorities? • Need a revitalization plan for the Village • Provide more than lipservice for low-cost rental accommodation. • Too much studying, no real results • Misleading/inappropriate question - not a standard or ethical practice to bundle these very separate issues together. Unless a desired outcome is the objective • Report. Report. Report. Get on with it. Be courageous. You know what we need with regards to housing and we need to approve secondary suites. (Although don't expect a ground swell of applicants. This will be so minor in the bigger content of things.) Forget about enforcing short-term rentals. There are bigger issues. • What does the option Insufficient/Inappropriate mean? They seem contradictory. • We need much more in the way of enforcement of CACs and fees for developers to fund the additional infrastructure pressures that come with development. • Review the slow service and high costs for building and renovation permits. • You need more consultation before you proceed with many of these initiatives. Too much time has passed since the last community plan • Not needed in OB • Why the need to conduct yet another secondary suite study? • Seems like nothing is happening. Let people build Garden Suites but they have to provide off street parking. South Oak Bay along Monterey, Oliver, St Patrick, St David is terrible as you allow parking on both sides of the street. Hard to get thru those roads easily. Lots of broken mirror and delays. I thought you had to have a covered garage in Oak Bay. there needs to be more housing • • Why have one protected area of heritage? All our heritage homes need protection. Council needs to do a better job of allowing upgrades and improvements to existing homes before approving more new development. • No mention of house affordability or plans to tackle low-income housing shortage? • Need affordable housing for low income peoples in Oak Bay. • • Quality of Oak Bay needs to be preserved. Too much development, too much infill, and secondary stronger building protection - heritage plan needed suites, will end up with a choked and ugly community. • This whole diverse housing agents mostly serves the development community but does little to serve tax paying residents. Oak Bay Lodge property should remain geared towards seniors housing. • Housing - I think Council should move quicker to enable secondary suites considering the shortage of housing. • Preparing plans is all well and good, but it is the speed of implementing those plans, the staffing with skilled people to process such applications, as well as the speed and cost of moving forward. All of this needs much improvement in Oak Bay. There seems to be a disconnect between what residents/Council wants and how it is moved forward at the staff level - perhaps there isn't adequate staffing to do so....perhaps the regulations are too unwieldly....definitely the costs are too high. • This district has spent too long fighting the use of secondary suites. We don't need more studies, we need action. This city is in a housing crisis and it requires action, not reports to make meaningful change. I am not convinced that Oak Bay Lodge could not be repurposed and used as affordable senior housing, with the sort of parameters that were used to (successfully) establish a similar place on Vancouver and Rockland. • • Too long a list for a single answer. • Too ambitious a list to achieve with everything else mentioned. I’m not knowledgeable enough to know what can be reasonably achieved for #57-61. • You’re not doing enough • Review Heritage and Zoning Policy to preserve historic character of streetscapes and prevent loss of urban forest currently being eroded by developers building large homes on small lots. Review Duplex policy • Secondary suite study would be timely to try and figure out what to do with it. Come up with a plan or two for the corridors would be great-not wanting a lot of new development, just a plan to provide whatever structure for the future. • The proposed condo on Oak Bay Avenue was disallowed because "OB does not need more expensive housing" (really because of the sentimental oak tree out front). OB United Church redevelopment was, apparently, disallowed because "OB does not need that much low cost housing". Which is it? What is your plan and does it just take "concerned citizens" to make you change your collective mind/ Low cost housing is desperately needed in CRD & Oak Bay should do its part. Allow large houses to become suites for seniors, etc to save houses from landfill. Encourage protection of heritage houses with budget to expand the Register. • • Nothing checked, question mark added. "Priority is to return the integrity of the Oak Bay community, its development of new homes/rebuilds, etc. and ensure the quality, high standards and ??? of current owners" • Sufficient checked, but following comments added: minimize OB infill for housing. Develop an enforceable policy on secondary suites & Oak Bay parking policies. • Oak Bay Lodge - most needed Secondary Suite Study - yet another? Question marks for secondary village area • Sufficient checked, comment added: let the Oak Bay Lodge reuseable, it is ugly that a very good building is sitting. Move, move, move • Sufficient checked, comments added: Are short term rentals a problem in Oak Bay? The secondary suite issue has been extensively studied & discussed. It is clear that legal secondary suites are key to improving a range of housing and making housing more affordable. I believe this should be acted upon now. • Nothing checked, comments added: I cannot really render an opinion regarding the two options. I assign high priority to the support for the redevelopment of the Oak Bay Lodge. I have no idea as to the usefulness of a "Community Amenity Contribution Policy" • Nothing checked, comment added: this last section has to many items. I need "priority" to simply identify them all as sufficient or insufficient. Therefore this is mostly blank. • Nothing checked, comments added: Housing is of major importance to all of us. Efforts to improve the existing housing situation, whether for the poor, the sick, seniors ??????....is very important • Sufficient checked, comment added: The province should not be passing the homeless problem to municipalities. The province closed the mental health facilities, then said municipalities have a problem. Do not turn Oak Bay Lodge into homeless housing. Remember - build it and they will come. Let Victoria be the homeless capital. It really is not a homeless problem, it's mental health and addiction. Sustainable Service – Detailed Responses Package of Initiatives: Negotiate Marina Lease; Assess and improve Tod House; Complete Cenotaph Restoration Project; Develop Long Term Financial Sustainability Plan; Prepare Fire Master Plan; Complete Water Master Plan; Refurbish Municipal Hall; Prepare Sewer Master Plan • Not sure most of these are actually necessary. • Water and sewer master plan • Bullet 1 should include a business case where we operate the site ourselves Bullet 2 and 3 not important in my view Bullet 5 fire master plan must consider a regional fire service or a partnership with Saanich...we don't need what we have now • negotiate Marina Lease License and one other plan. • Restoration is not a sustainable service. Police service plan is missing. Assessing and improving the historic Todd house is not a sustainable service but a maintenance project - not a service! • As above, more of the same. • Sustainability, by definition, is something that can be done forever. This is where you need clear climate change goals, such as mitigation of sea level rise, planning for solar subsidies for individual houses, increased spending on updated sewers etc • This seems like an ambitious list of priorities for the next few years. Especially during COVID, I wonder if you have the capacity to complete so many items. • Sewer has to be fixed not acceptable in 2020 in wealthy neighbourhood to be putting sewer into ocean near beaches and schools - should have been done decades ok • Refurbishing the Municipal Hall is totally unnecessary! • I would far rather see monies go into upgrading Carnarvon Park than City Hall. Unless there are pressing structural issues, I don't see that City Hall needs significant refurbishment. Especially during the pandemic, outdoor recreation facilities should be the priority. If Council does not seriously address climate change now, none of that list will be sustainable. • • Open up the possibilities for Turkey Head • Should include a climate action plan • Misleading/inappropriate question - not a standard or ethical practice to bundle these very separate issues together. Unless a desired outcome is the objective • Make sure that 30 year lease on the marine makes that a public (not quash private) amenity. • The boat launch at Cattle Point is in desperate need of expansion and a dock to accommodate the current levels of usage. • Tod House can be delayed from my perspective. Refurbishing municipal hall could possibly be phased, as I don't have a full understanding of what is being contemplated. • You need more consultation before you proceed with many of these initiatives. Too much time has passed since the last community plan . You need to consider more financing alternatives so our taxes do not keep going up. Many of us are on fixed pension incomes. Do not sell us out to rich people. • 133215 • This method of inquiry bundles items that should be rated individually. Deliberately bundling the bad with the good. Unethical. • So we should work from the premise that the Marina wl stay? What else can be done with Turkey Head- it's the most beautiful sunrise spot and it's a parking lot. Can we please take back the lot for the people and then renegotiate the peace with OBMG. • Preparing plans is not doing .You can have meetings till the cows come home ! Take action for once • Dinomite • Not enough public information • A drainage Masterplan would be good too. • acab • no need to refurbish municipal hall, defer tod house action • Cenotaph and Todd House are not priorities for improvement. • We need a plan for upgrading roads and sidewalks and other core infrastructure. • • Too long a list for a single answer. • You’re not doing enough • Unclear as to why Tod House is on the list and how this benefits the public as we understand it to be a private residence. Is the plan to open it to the public in the future? If that is the case, then it may be appropriate to use public funds to maintain it. I hope these aren’t listed in terms of priority. The Master plans should be at the top list. • Sufficient checked, but comment added: Tod House is very important and needs to be saved before it's too late • nothing checked • Sufficient checked, comment added: be careful what you spend on the plans and how useful they are. • Sufficient checked, comment added: I would assign Tod House low priority if it is an active residence and not open to the public. • Nothing checked, comment added: There is a need for a climate change action plan. Rest not legible. • Sufficient checked, comment added: We do not need a swimming pool where the Marina is - there is park space adjacent. Leave it as is - u can walk/drive by & see the water - leave it open Service Excellence – Detailed Responses Package of Initiatives: Prepare and implement an HR Plan (talent management, health & safety, performance management, compensation & benefits and HR systems); Refresh website; Review Procedures Bylaw; Procure public engagement software platform; Review and revamp Occupational Health and Safety Program; Upgrade software to implement additional school tax levies for the Province; Develop a 5 year long-term financial plan; Undertake budget software implementation; Upgrade Tempest.net; Upgrade payroll software; Implement Network Switch Replacement; Prepare an IT Operational Master Plan; Update Microsoft 365; Undertake network security audit; Upgrade Council Chambers audio equipment; Review mutual aid agreement; Review policies and procedures; Prepare Communications Plan for public n case of Emergency; Update Land Use Procedures Bylaw • X • a lot of this list doesn't seem very important • again how can these be completed in less than 4 years? be realistic. Get one or two done. • Service excellence is not about upgrading software it is service provided to citizens. 5 year financial plan is covered under sustainable service. Service excellence is not about the tools but what the tools can do for the taxpayer. This section needs to rewritten - it is a mess. • These sound like very important initiatives and as a CPA I have been involved with many of them while working as Teck Resources, SAP and BusinessObjects but unless you have the right people to be involved in not only the planning, implementation, go live and sustainment stages the project will be expensive and not provide the benefits you had hoped for. • We are a municipality of 20,000, not 500,000. A lot of hses have the sense of Overkill and "not keep • it simple". review enforcement of existing bylaws. Two areas: dog violations in the GVHMBS; traffic control — speed and noise on our main streets. • How have you not done this yet? • Website doesn't need a refresh. Public engagement software platform not necessary. 5 year plan seems way too long of a timeframe, 2-3 years max. Tempest.net, IT, etc. The district needs to take a serious look at alternative platforms and services. Look at what BCGov is doing, open source, new procurement models. The district needs to move away from vendor lock-in and allow more competition in the IT sector. Time to modernize the approach as well. • There needs to be more detailed & well-organized information on the Oak Bay web site and council meetings & development proposals. routine maintenance, not priority Land use procedures should be higher on the list. • How does this compare to what residents should expect as basic services • • • Forget this there are bigger issues • A long-term plan for remote attendance at municipal meetings (beyond Covid-19) ought to be part of this service excellent update, if it is not. • These are not priorities in a time when people need a break on property taxes!!! • Why is a new public engagement platform needed? Rather than issuing another new large scale software contract, explore opportunities for using existing platforms and the website. • Explore amalgamation with other municipalities to reduce these overhead costs • Misleading/inappropriate question - not a standard or ethical practice to bundle these very separate issues together. Unless a desired outcome is the objective • Found the name misleading - sounds more like modernizing back office tools or administrative excellence • You need more consultation before you proceed with many of these initiatives. Too much time has passed since the last community plan . Start restoring Indigenous place names. Respect that Uplands Park is a burial site and stop the ongoing colonial restoration that only values diversity and ignores traditional knowledges and the sues of these meadows for food and medicine and ceremony. Get rid of the fences in Uplands Park and rap up the education of the traditional people centered role of Uplands Park. Start valuing the Camas "bulbs" rather than just the pretty blue flowers. Practice ethnoecological restoration. Stop the colonial style restoration initiatives. • This method of inquiry bundles items that should be rated individually. Deliberately bundling the bad with the good. Unethical. • We need a fiscal reality check and some accountability for unsustainable increases in property taxes. We are a small municipality. Can we please set the standard for moderation and prudent spending of public funds? This is not a blank cheque. Let's get back to basic services and ensuring that developers are paying their share of the FULL costs of development. • Dinomite • acab • way too much to actually do, reduce objectives to more doable number • The above sounds like an effort to pad the municipal hall with a large number of highly paid people. “Service Excellence” is an abhorrent use of the English language. People who use that sort of language are incapable of excellence. • HR is getting top heavy. • Most of these seems like staff functions. The • What you're hoping for is sufficient, whether or not it happens is another thing. • Building permits, plans and progress of any developments placed on website for all to view. Comments allowed. • Some of this yes, some of it isn’t a priority. • Too long a list for a single answer. • What youre doing is making things worse • HR - Reduce or limit hiring of more administrative staff from outside the district. Efficiency of those presently on staff hindered by lack of local knowledge. Make use of local experts with Advisory committees rather than consultants who tend to provide cookie-cutter solutions. • Sufficient checked, comments added: be careful of implementing software changes to quickly as they are often obsolete by the time residents are competent to use them. Be mindful of residents who are on limited income and unable to adapt to changing technology. • Sufficient checked, but comment added: The website for heritage is out of date - houses now designated are not listed, despite 2018 bylaw & heritage events have not been put on the Oak Bay calendar without prodding • Nothing checked, but comments added - first bullet "why is this a priority, it is part of ordinary business". 5 year plan bullet - "would expect this of any business/ govt. operation". • Sufficient checked, but the following comments were added: Do a base management review of FTE municipality positions. Are we overstaffed? • Sufficient checked with comments to decrease K.I.S.S. and spend less on IT. Stand up to Microsoft et all and just say no! • • sufficient was checked, but comment added to ensure succession planning Inappropriate underlined. " get on the cloud for everything. OB must not be specifying procuring nothing and maintaining their own cars. Use SAS not procurement of licenses. Review collaborative amalgamation opportunities. Oak Bay is static, it has grown at 0.11% per year for 15 years. Don't expect its citizens to pay for castles. • Sufficient checked, comments added: Other municipalities in the CRD may be able to provide considerable input/assistance with the components listed above. We need to be cognizant of costs. There is no need to reinvent the wheel. Update Microsoft 365??? • Sufficient checked, comment added: Sounds like an awful lot of work - are we willing to pay for it? • Sufficient checked, comments added: Suggestion: at Willows Park, there are 1 or 2 signs posted high up on a post (and on the pavement) about "no cycling" on walkway, but cyclists have many access points & don't see these signs (or ignore them) so perhaps a logo/symbol showing the outline of a bike with a slash through could be printed on the walkway itself, so that cyclists would look down and see it every couple of metres. Quality of Life – Detailed Responses Package of Initiatives: Undertake deer management research project; Change rules for home-based business; Update dog use policies; Prepare Parks, Recreation and Culture Master Plan • X • only the 4th bullet is important • Don't research deer - cull them. • Deer management needs to be accelerated. Off leash dogs on our beaches should not be allowed as it is in contravention of the Victoria Harbour Bird Sanctuary Act • Deer plan needs to be urgent. • what happened to bicycle path infrastructure? Deer management project needs to be at CRD level to be successful • Hold a referendum on what to do with our out of control deer population. Plant more trees. restrict AirBnB's. • Quality of life includes 3 Dimensions: social, economic and environmental. An integrated plan examining how to balance all three is needed. Most of what is mentioned here is already covered by previous sections or categories. • Why are we spending money on deer when people are homeless? • Only work on deer management through the CRD. • Research project blah blah.. Are you actually doing anything tangible about deer? • Take a whole-system approach to our parks. Respect biodiversity and protect against over-use of sites through the installation of signage and walkways where necessary. Fence off vulnerable areas. Enforce bylaws to protect zones from ongoing soil compaction and degradation. Etc. • Ecologically, unleashed dog presence and bike use are the two biggest factors impacting parks. Considering Uplands park is built around various graves, limiting impact of First Nations historical sites is of upmost importance. It will also lower your maintenance costs, and save rare species found only here in Victoria. • We need more signage around Willows Beach, Uplands Park, and Cattle Point about how the area is a sensitive ecosystem and bird sanctuary, and not allow dogs to off-leash in these sensitive areas. leave as is • • This is such an important topic yet has the least amount of initiatives. Perhaps the PRC master plan incorporates many of the quality of life items. Curious about the 'update' dog use policies....No mention of cats? • The list considers but doesn't outline actions to determine whether it will increase or decrease quality of life. • An odd assortment of initiatives under this heading......lots of other things contribute to our economic, social and mental health and well-being, including environmental protection, that are not here and could be. • vague • Deer are disease carriers and a threat and should not be living in urban areas - not fair on them or us • - cull or move I thought there was a Complete Streets project in the works several years back which would guide municipal projects toward safer streets. If that has fallen by the wayside, it should be brought forward again. • None of these are priorities during a time when taxpayers need a property tax break! • What's the goal of the deer research project? • I would prefer no deer at all roaming the streets. Love to see more inclusion of dogs, i.e. allowed in more public areas, shops etc • A plan for Carnarvon Park is needed as a matter of urgency. This should be the priority for Parks & Recreation. It is one of the most used, and least maintained, facilities in Oak Bay. • Show some regional leadership and deal with deer problem once and for all. There are means to do so. • Get serious about moving dogs to dedicated use areas, away from natural areas and beaches. There is no need for the expense of a Master Plan for Rec/culture facilities that are well established in a community that is not growing. incremental change by competent management should be sufficient. • Deal with the deer once and for all! • Being the municipality to 1980 standards - this is so outdated • Stop researching. Cull the deer. • No results with deer issue • Misleading/inappropriate question - not a standard or ethical practice to bundle these very separate issues together. Unless a desired outcome is the objective • This is such a narrow definition of quality of life. Diverse housing is a critical part of this. Get on with approving secondary housing/approving townhouses, etc (I am not a developer but a senior citizen that is unlikely to benefit from any of those but I am not opposed. I like a diverse community and Oak Bay is not! • Dogs need more dog-friendly and off-leash fenced areas • Deer management is insufficient • Deer cull or nothing is the appropriate way forward • Feel this should include initiatives on ways to bring the community back together and back to life after COVID. COVID has had significant negative impacts on our quality of life and we will need to actively rebuild what has been lost. • Decrease traffic, increase walking and bike space, increase parks, increase green space, increase tree canopy • You need more consultation before you proceed with many of these initiatives. Too much time has passed since the last community plan . Also, to respect Reconciliation you need to fund and engage Indigenous advisors before you proceed with any more colonial style restoration in the Oak Bay meadows. These are special places and colonial restoration practice prevents important opportunities for relationship building and reconciliation with the Indigenous peoples of this region. Do not fund any further restoration unless it is done in consultation with Indigenous peoples. Rename Uplands Park to the original Indigenous names for this area. Encourage culture ceremonies and practices within Uplands Park. Encourage indigenous harvesting in Uplands Park. Set an example at Uplands Park through entho-ecological restoration practices. Do not remove invasives that the Indigenous peoples value for food and medicinal value. Rethink all the colonial restoration practices and goals and objectives . • 133215 • deer management research is not. needed. A major cull is needed to protect private gardens, public plantings/ shrubs and to allow low bush ground cover to restore habitat for ground dwelling birds. Deer have over-grazed Oak Bay! Hormone treatment at ~ | $1,000/ deer is not needed. Cull them. • Deer population needs to be managed better. • This method of inquiry bundles items that should be rated individually. Deliberately bundling the bad with the good. Unethical. • Enough research on the deer. Cull the deer! • See remarks about safe walkways. • Need dog only park • We need one accessible playground in Oak Bay before a Madter Plan is created, budgeted for and then implemented... in that model there qont be a new playground for at least 5 yrs, minimum. Safety and accessibility need to be forefront. • Dinomite • Need the deer gone. • More funding for Recreation to improve Quality of Healthy Lifestyles. Improve services in Sportsview Lounge to generate more revenue like in its heydays during 80s and 90s. • Parks rec and culture I agree with. Other items are not a good use of resources. • Deer management program is good, but too slow. We need a more serious approach. • the current deer management experiment is interesting, but seemingly ineffective and much too slow. We need a new plan to make our neighbourhoods safe from roving deer. • acab • again, way to many tasks, prioritize , nothing listed here is essential for short term, being next two years or so. Increase deer management. • more control of deer - urban setting not appropriate for deer. • Don’t change rules for home based business. • • Not sure what's planned for home-based businesses but I don't want to see business related vehicles taking up residential parking as I've seen in Saanich (e.g., limo service, client services with in-person visits). This increases the traffic in our quiet residential areas where we have young families trying to enjoy their streets and yards. • Cull deer • Stop researching deer management...to many studies and not enough action • Too many deer and too many off leash dogs at all hours. Seriously - just a fact. • Deer x Loose dogs x • Bye bye deer. How about just sedate the deer, rent a U-Haul and transport them to Cobble Hill? | $150 round trip maybe? Can life be that simple? • Sufficient checked, comments added: deer should be humanely euthanized to provide food for low income residents! Increase fines for dogs (and other animal) owners who violate bylaws - should be applied evenly • The deer management program is great & I know that permission is needed from BC Government. I suggest Oak Bay strongly urge other municipalities to join this effort or deer will come from Victoria & Saanich continually & project useless long term • Nothing checked, comment on deer management "just do it, more research is not needed, just get rid of them" increase opportunity for home-based as a S.P. and inc. • • Sufficient selected, but "no" added to deer project • Expand and enhance climate change policies and environmental sustainability policies beyond just - the ones below (although these are excellent steps) Sufficient was checked, but comment added that COVID should refocus on what community needs - neighbourhoods walk to services • Deer management research ought to be about finished • No money for deer ???? get out of that business • Nothing checked, comments added: I do not support more research on the deer issue. This is not rocket science, and there are clear approaches that can be used to reduce the deer population. • Nothing checked, comments added: More than sufficient/appropriate! Where is the UWSS in deer management? Health & Resilience – Detailed Responses Package of Initiatives: Investigate and consult on regulatory options for restricting or banning single use items; Complete Sea-Level Rise Study; Prepare EV Station Options Analysis; Implement Cool Kit Program; Prepare an Emergency Evacuation Plan • Stop investigate and consulting. Get gas blowers gone. There have already been sea level studies. Waste of | $. • Forget banning single use items. • Do not subsidize electric vehicles. • complete emergency evacuation Plan. leave rest of priorities to other groups. /services. not municipal government. • very urgent • Some of These bullet points belong in the quality of life section, while others are already covered in previous sections. What about CO2 resilience plan? What about a CLIMATE CHANGE resilience plan? What about applying a climate change lens to the budget. • EV stations are not a task for municipal governments. Home owners in oak bay with an electric car can afford to charge the car at home. • Not enough data here to make a comment on. • Ban rodenticides to protect owls & other wildlife, ban the selling of single-use plastics, & reduce the use of gas-powered lawn & garden equipment. i do not support banning single use items • • Not clear how the list supports health • More protection needed for heritage and uniqueness of the district. • Oak Bay should focus on areas where it holds the tools to make a difference; banning single-use items • is not one of them. Insane objectives... sea level rise study???? What will this study help with? Are we paying someone to dream up these 'make work' projects? Get a grip on the reality of our depressed economy and find ways to help people in meaningful ways. • Regional issues. • Cool Kit program should be a key element of climate change response. Oak Bay lags badly behind regional neighbours in environmental action. • Not a significant enough effort to fight climate change, get people out of their cars and improve bike routes • Please explain that first bullet. One has to have some deep insider knowledge or corporate memory around news-reported items to comment. Sea-level rise study seems a little "too late to the party" given some of the housing that has been approved lately. (King George Terrance -- oh well. Just hope that the municipality isn't legally on the hook down the road when that house gets washed away.) Do you really need more EV analysis? Just do it. • Get out of the EV station business and leave health and resilience to the province and federal govt. • Do not make the rest of us pay to shore up waterfront properties. The rich owners need to assume these costs • This method of inquiry bundles items that should be rated individually. Deliberately bundling the bad with the good. Unethical. • Why is it a municipal responsibility to provide EV charging?!?! • We need an emergency alert system for tsunami. It is not enough to expect residents to be alerted by cell phone. Also, residents should be informed as to level of risk in their area; mapping is not clear and difficult to find. • acab • my gosh, who thought up all of these items. make sure the garage is picked up, and support the fire and police • This should be left to individuals, and smacks of too much government meddling. • Don’t waste time and resources on single use item issues. • Banning single use items should be a provincial and federal matter. • We really need to up our Emergency Preparedness and Evacuation Planning game! Much more needs to be done to prepare neighbourhoods. Make use of your block watch networks to help with this. Investigate opening of Public Health Clinic - maybe at Oak Bay Lodge Use Oak Bay Lodge for temporary housing for older 55+ homeless or under housed persons until plans for buildings final use are complete. • • Sufficient checked, comments added: single use items are often not singe use as plastic bags can be repurposed for projects or garbage bags. Also single use items should be an OPTION for the consumers (note health concerns for immune compromised or handicapped consumers). Allow sea levels according to nature. Charge fees for EV station parking & recovery of costs. What is Cool Kit program??? Have a real time test (monitored) before a REAL emergency!!! • Sufficient checked, but comment added: I have never had a single use plastic bag - I use them over and over and over • Nothing checked, comment added to emergency plan "hope we already have one" • Why is Oak Bay working on sea level rise study? Get the feds to pay for it if you think you need it. • Nothing checked, comment added: More than sufficient/appropriate! EV owners should pay for stations! • Sufficient checked, comment added: One can improve quality of life on your block by picking up leaves & taking them to Elgin Rd. instead of leaving them for 6 or more months waiting for the Municipality to do it - looks bad and is slippery and messy